To accurately replicate effects contained within this project, one must enable Experimental Operators/Blocks in the visual effects project settings, and add decals to their rendering pipeline.

The fireworks were completed with a chain of nodes. It started with a set spawn node, which controls the spawn rate of the fireworks. This feeds into an initialize particle block- which contains Lifetime, which controls the lifetime of individual particles, Position Shape, which is set to line and controls the shape of the area in which particles spawn at random, and a random Set Velocity from Direction and Speed block which determines how fast the particles are flying once they have spawned in. This feeds into an Update particle node, which contains a Gravity block, which applies gravity to the firework for a more realistic look, a Linear Drag block, which slows the particle down over time dependant on its velocity, and two trigger blocks. The first trigger block is set to Always, and feeds to the rocket trail, and the second is set to On Death, which feeds into the explosion of the firework. Then, it feeds into an Output Particle Unlit Quad Node which contains Orient, which controls the direction the particles face, color, which sets the color (including alpha level) of the particle, and Size, which controls the size of the particle.

The explosion of the firework is structured essentially identically to the rocket node, but with the addition of a random velocity block in the initialize particle node which makes the particles fly in random directions. It also has a GPU trigger for trails for the individual fragments of the rocket, and has a Random Size block in the Output node to create more visually interesting fragmentation.

The trails of the rocket and its explosion are particles spawned on each frame, which fade over time in the Output node with the use of Set Color Over Time.

The image fireworks effect is currently incomplete, as there is not much information available on how to achieve the effect in the current version of VfxGraph.

The interactive fireball is built with a similar system to the firework, but the spawned particles are much closer together. As the fireball moves, spawned particles which fade over time create a visual trail. There is a GPU event trigger in the Update node which creates sparks, implementing a similar system to the firework explosion. The interactivity is handled by a script which converts the position of the mouse, if click is being held, into world space, which it passes as a property to Set Position on the fireball’s Initialize Particles node.

For the sub-graphs task, there are three sub-graphs for the fire effect. The fire subgraph is meant for the Output block, and has the exposed properties of fire color and size which can be edited in VfxGraph. The smoke subgraph is similar, meant to be placed in the Output block, with exposed color and size properties. The wind subgraph, which should be placed as a block into Update Particle, is accomplished by applying force on the X and Z axis, with an exposed property for Wind Direction that rotates the direction of the wind a full 360 degrees, and an exposed property for Wind Speed which is self-explanatory.

The task asked, for the goo explosion effect, to pay attention to the properties of viscosity and elasticity. I have been staring at VfxGraph for a number of hours now and have never seen a single reference to these properties. Regardless, I achieved the effect in a simplified version of the recommended tutorial. The goo is spawned in a single burst as opposed to at a fixed rate like with the previous effects. The splatter of the goo, it sticking to surfaces, is handled by two blocks in the update node- Collision with the depth buffer from the main camera's point of view, with bounce turned down to zero and lifetime loss turned up to one. This way, the particles die on impact with the depth buffer. Then, an On Die GPU Event Trigger is used to spawn a particle in the position the last one died- but instead of a particle rendering as an unlit quad, its output is set so that the particle is rendered as a decal on the depth buffer.
